docs/source/tests/any_other_function_with_shell_equals_true.rst, before:

any_other_function_with_shell_equals_true
=========================================

Description
-----------
This plugin test interrogates method calls for the presence of a keyword
parameter `shell` equalling true. It is related to detection of shell injection
issues and is intended to catch custom wrappers to vulnerable methods that may
have been created.

Available Since
---------------
 - Bandit v 0.9.0

Config Options
--------------
This plugin method takes a configuration block shared with various related
plugins. The config block `shell_injection` is provided to list various
classes of function call that are considered by this and other plugins relating
to detection of shell injection issues.

Specifically, this plugin excludes those functions listed under the subprocess
section, these methods are tested in a separate specific test plugin and this
exclusion prevents duplicate issue reporting.

.. code-block:: yaml

    shell_injection:
        # Start a process using the subprocess module, or one of its wrappers.
        subprocess: [subprocess.Popen, subprocess.call, subprocess.check_call,
                     subprocess.check_output, utils.execute,
                     utils.execute_with_timeout]


Sample Output
-------------
.. code-block:: none

    >> Issue: Function call with shell=True parameter identifed, possible security issue.
       Severity: Medium   Confidence: High
       Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:9
    8 pop('/bin/gcc --version', shell=True)
    9 Popen('/bin/gcc --version', shell=True)
    10

References
----------
 - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_avoid-shell-true.html
 - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_use-subprocess-securely.html

Commit message:

Adding docs for subprocess tests
Change-Id: Ib1484998d3dae6a832e699b30805835c467a1a16
Partial-bug: #1474796

docs/source/tests/any_other_function_with_shell_equals_true.rst, after:

any_other_function_with_shell_equals_true
=========================================

Description
-----------
Python possesses many mechanisms to invoke an external executable. However,
doing so may present a security issue if appropriate care is not taken to
sanitize any user provided or variable input.

This plugin test is part of a family of tests built to check for process
spawning and warn appropriately. Specifically, this plugin test interrogates
method calls for the presence of a keyword parameter `shell` equalling true. It
is related to detection of shell injection issues and is intended to catch
custom wrappers to vulnerable methods that may have been created.

See also:

- :doc:`linux_commands_wildcard_injection`.
- :doc:`subprocess_popen_with_shell_equals_true`.
- :doc:`subprocess_without_shell_equals_true`.
- :doc:`start_process_with_no_shell`.
- :doc:`start_process_with_a_shell`.
- :doc:`start_process_with_partial_path`.

Available Since
---------------
 - Bandit v 0.9.0

Config Options
--------------
This plugin test shares a configuration with others in the same family, namely
`shell_injection`. This configuration is divided up into three sections,
`subprocess`, `shell` and `no_shell`. They each list Python calls that spawn
subprocesses, invoke commands within a shell, or invoke commands without a
shell (by replacing the calling process) respectively.

Specifically, this plugin excludes those functions listed under the subprocess
section, these methods are tested in a separate specific test plugin and this
exclusion prevents duplicate issue reporting.

.. code-block:: yaml

    shell_injection:
        # Start a process using the subprocess module, or one of its wrappers.
        subprocess: [subprocess.Popen, subprocess.call, subprocess.check_call,
                     subprocess.check_output, utils.execute,
                     utils.execute_with_timeout]


Sample Output
-------------
.. code-block:: none

    >> Issue: Function call with shell=True parameter identified, possible
    security issue.
       Severity: Medium   Confidence: High
       Location: ./examples/subprocess_shell.py:9
    8 pop('/bin/gcc --version', shell=True)
    9 Popen('/bin/gcc --version', shell=True)
    10

References
----------
 - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_avoid-shell-true.html
 - https://security.openstack.org/guidelines/dg_use-subprocess-securely.html
